# 3.3-activities

## We Do: Service Layer Implementation

**Starter & Solved Folders:** [01-we-service-layer](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Kb-vzMA4iujwAQyOd3LwKoxmw4vGL1zn/view?usp=sharing)

The purpose of this section is to learn how to implement a service layer component. Service layer components are just plain Java classes, but you will see how they work with controllers, ViewModels, and repositories.

Follow along with the instructor throughout the exercise.

### AlbumViewModel

In the package `com.company.reccoll.viewmodel`, create an `AlbumViewModel` class:

- The `AlbumViewModel` contains the information of the Album DTO, but it also has the following:
  - An `Artist` object (rather than just the id)
  - A `Label` object (rather than just the id)
  - A list of associated `Tracks` (the Album DTO does not contain any reference to `Tracks`)
- This model is more convenient for the end user.

### Injecting the Repositories

- Have students code this along with you.
- The service layer needs references to all four repositories.
- This is standard: you have class-level properties, a constructor that sets the repository references, and you use the `@Autowired` annotation so Spring will inject these references into our service layer object. Note that you must include the `@Service` annotation on the `ServiceLayer` class so Spring knows about our class.
- In the package `com.company.reccoll.service`, create the `ServiceLayer` class:

```java
@Service
public class ServiceLayer {

    private AlbumRepository albumRepository;
    private ArtistRepository artistRepository;
    private LabelRepository labelRepository;
    private TrackRepository trackRepository;

    @Autowired
    public ServiceLayer(AlbumRepository albumRepository, ArtistRepository artistRepository,
                        LabelRepository labelRepository, TrackRepository trackRepository) {
        this.albumRepository = albumRepository;
        this.artistRepository = artistRepository;
        this.labelRepository = labelRepository;
        this.trackRepository = trackRepository;
    }
}
```

### Saving an Album

- Code along with the instructor.
- This method is responsible for converting the incoming ViewModel into DTOs.
- Our business rules (expressed as FK relationships in the DB) allow you to create a new album and new tracks, but you have to use an existing `Artist` and `Label`, which is why you don't do anything with the `Artist` and `Label` objects.
- This method creates a new `Album`, persists it with the `albumRepository`, sets the new id on the `viewModel`, and then creates the new `Tracks`.
- Note that you use the `@Transactional` annotation to ensure that everything is either saved or rolled back:

```java
@Transactional
public AlbumViewModel saveAlbum(AlbumViewModel viewModel) {

    // Persist Album
    Album a = new Album();
    a.setTitle(viewModel.getTitle());
    a.setReleaseDate(viewModel.getReleaseDate());
    a.setListPrice(viewModel.getListPrice());
    a.setLabelId(viewModel.getLabel().getId());
    a.setArtistId(viewModel.getArtist().getId());
    a = albumRepository.save(a);
    viewModel.setId(a.getId());

    // Add Album Id to Tracks and Persist Tracks
    List<Track> tracks = viewModel.getTracks();

    tracks.stream()
            .forEach(t ->
            {
                t.setAlbumId(viewModel.getId());
                trackRepository.save(t);
            });

    tracks = trackRepository.findAllTracksByAlbumId(viewModel.getId());
    viewModel.setTracks(tracks);

    return viewModel;
}
```

### Finding an Album

- Code along with the instructor.
- Implement a `findAlbum` method.
- This method calls the `albumRepository` to get the requested `Album` object by id.
- It then calls the `buildAlbumViewModel` helper method to create the `ViewModel`.
- Finally, it returns the `ViewModel`:

```java
public AlbumViewModel findAlbum(int id) {

    // Get the album object first
    Optional<Album> album = albumRepository.findById(id);

    return album.isPresent() ? buildAlbumViewModel(album.get()) : null;
}
```

### ViewModel Builder Method

- Code along with the instructor.
- This method creates an `AlbumViewModel` object from the given `Album` object.
- It gets the associated `Artist` and `Label` objects using the appropriate repository for each.
- It gets the associated `Track` list using the `trackRepository`.
- It constructs the `ViewModel` object and returns it:

```java
private AlbumViewModel buildAlbumViewModel(Album album) {

    // Get the associated artist
    Optional<Artist> artist = artistRepository.findById(album.getArtistId());

    // Get the associated label
    Optional<Label> label = labelRepository.findById(album.getLabelId());

    // Get the tracks associated with the album
    List<Track> trackList = trackRepository.findAllTracksByAlbumId(album.getId());

    // Assemble the AlbumViewModel
    AlbumViewModel avm = new AlbumViewModel();
    avm.setId(album.getId());
    avm.setTitle(album.getTitle());
    avm.setReleaseDate(album.getReleaseDate());
    avm.setListPrice(album.getListPrice());
    avm.setArtist(artist.get());
    avm.setLabel(label.get());
    avm.setTracks(trackList);

    // Return the AlbumViewModel
    return avm;
}
```

### Finding All Albums

- Working in the `ServiceLayer` class, implement a `findAllAlbums` method.
- This method is similar to `findAlbum`.
- This method creates a list of `AlbumViewModel` objects from the `Album` list returned by the repository.
- It then returns the `AlbumViewModel` list.

### Updating an Album

- Code along with the instructor.
- This is similar to `saveAlbum` except that you delete any previously associated `Tracks` and then create new `Track` entries for the album.
- Note that you use the `@Transactional` annotation:

```java
@Transactional
public void updateAlbum(AlbumViewModel viewModel) {

    // Update the album information
    Album album = new Album();
    album.setId(viewModel.getId());
    album.setArtistId(viewModel.getArtist().getId());
    album.setLabelId(viewModel.getLabel().getId());
    album.setListPrice(viewModel.getListPrice());
    album.setReleaseDate(viewModel.getReleaseDate());

    albumRepository.save(album);

    // We don't know if any tracks have been removed, so delete all associated tracks
    // and then associate the tracks in the ViewModel with the album
    List<Track> trackList = trackRepository.findAllTracksByAlbumId(album.getId());
    trackList.stream()
            .forEach(track -> trackRepository.deleteById(track.getId()));

    List<Track> tracks = viewModel.getTracks();
    tracks.stream()
            .forEach(t ->
            {
                t.setAlbumId(viewModel.getId());
                t = trackRepository.save(t);
            });
}
```

### Removing an Album

- Working in the `ServiceLayer` class, implement a `removeAlbum` method.
- This method takes in the album `id` as a parameter.
- First remove the associated `Tracks` (you have to do this first because of the FK relationship).
- Then remove the `Album` entry.
- Be sure to mark the method as `@Transactional`.

## We Do: Service Layer Unit Testing via Mocks

**Solved Folder:** [02-we-mocks](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uo7r93muVttuB0sXcWA4QqcrghKFDR8c/view?usp=sharing)

The purpose of this exercise is to continue looking at the Mockito mocking library and discuss how the the `mock`, `doReturn`, and `when` methods are used in testing scenarios.

The easiest way to see how this works is by looking at code. We'll look at code that sets up a mock of the `AlbumRepository` for use in unit testing the service layer.

### Getting Started

First create a new JUnit test file called `com.company.reccoll.service.ServiceLayerTest.java` in the `src/main/test/java` directory in the project.

This is a helper method that sets up the class level `AlbumRepository albumRepository;` to be a mock object rather than a live repository in a JUnit test class that tests the service layer component in the Record Collection project.

1. The first step is to create the mock object using the `mock` method.
2. Next, create two `Album` objects to use in configuring the mock object.
   - The first `Album` object represents an album that has been added to the database. Notice that it has an `id` property.
   - The second `Album` object represents an album that you want to save to the database. Notice that you don't set the `id` property, but **all other fields have the same values** as the first `Album` object.
   - Finally, create a `List` of `Album` objects, and add our first album to the list. This represents what is returned from the repository when `getAllAlbums` is called.
3. After the data objects have been created, configure the mock object to act in an expected way when certain methods are called:
   - The first `doReturn/when` tells the mock to return `album` (remember, this is the one with the id set) when the `addAlbum` method is called with `album2` as the parameter (remember, this is the one without the id set).
   - The second `doReturn/when` tells the mock to return `album` when the `getAlbum` method is called with `1` as the parameter.
   - The last `doReturn/when` tells the mock to return `aList` when the `getAllAlbums` method is called.

Some things to keep in mind:

- This is pretty simple setup. You can set the mock to have different responses for different inputs, depending on how you want/need to call the repository's methods.
- If a method on the mock object is called with a parameter that hasn't been configured, as shown in the following code, the mock will return the default value of whatever the return type is. For example, if the return type is an object, the mock will return `null`. If the return type is an int, it will return `0`, and if the return type is a Boolean, it will return `false`.
- This means that you have to carefully set up your scenarios and make sure that you call the methods with the exact values that you configured:

```java
private void setUpAlbumRepositoryMock() {
    albumRepository = mock(AlbumRepository.class);
    Album album = new Album();
    album.setId(1);
    album.setArtistId(45);
    album.setLabelId(10);
    album.setTitle("Greatest Hits");
    album.setListPrice(new BigDecimal("14.99"));
    album.setReleaseDate(LocalDate.of(1999, 05, 15));

    Album album2 = new Album();
    album2.setArtistId(45);
    album2.setLabelId(10);
    album2.setTitle("Greatest Hits");
    album2.setListPrice(new BigDecimal("14.99"));
    album2.setReleaseDate(LocalDate.of(1999, 05, 15));

    List<Album> aList = new ArrayList<>();
    aList.add(album);

    doReturn(album).when(albumRepository).save(album2);
    doReturn(Optional.of(album)).when(albumRepository).findById(1);
    doReturn(aList).when(albumRepository).findAll();
}
```

### Set Up the Label Repository Mock

Now it's your chance to implement to a helper method to return a mock object for the `Label` class.

Use the previous example as a guide as you implement the `setUpLabelRepositoryMock()` method.

### Set Up the Track Repository Mock

Now you're going to implement another helper method, this time to set up the mock object for the `Track` class.

Implement the `setUpTrackRepositoryMock()` method.

### Set Up thew Artist Repository Mock

Now, finish out the helper methods by setting up the mock for the `Artist` repository.

Follow along with the instructor as you implement the code:

```java
private void setUpArtistRepositoryMock() {
    artistRepository = mock(ArtistRepository.class);
    Artist artist = new Artist();
    artist.setId(45);
    artist.setInstagram("@RockStar");
    artist.setName("The GOAT");
    artist.setTwitter("@TheRockStar");

    Artist artist2 = new Artist();
    artist2.setInstagram("@RockStar");
    artist2.setName("The GOAT");
    artist2.setTwitter("@TheRockStar");

    List aList = new ArrayList();
    aList.add(artist);

    doReturn(artist).when(artistRepository).save(artist2);
    doReturn(Optional.of(artist)).when(artistRepository).findById(45);
    doReturn(aList).when(artistRepository).findAll();
}
```

## Student Do: Service Layer Unit Testing via Mocks

**Starter & Solved Folders:** [03-stu-mocks](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1z8AWMhjN3SuCgWhkuURlHc7bQ620z7xt/view?usp=sharing)

### Instructions

Your assignment is to complete the following `ServiceLayerTest` unit tests found in the `starter` folder using Mockito, as outlined in class. Use existing tests as a guide.

- `public void saveFindAlbum()`
- `public void saveFindFindAllArtist()`
- `public void saveFindFindAllLabel()`

### Structure

------

Your solution must have the following structural elements:

1. Complete the `ServiceLayerTest` JUnit test class in the `record-collection` project in the `starter` folder.
2. Turn in the entire project.

### Configuration Note

The project in the `starter` folder contains two test cases in `AlbumRepositoryTests.java` that write the field `releaseDate` to the database and immediately read it back.

In the case that the time zone of your installed `MySQL` instance is mismatched with the time zone specified in the project's `application.properties`, the test cases will fail with with the following error:

```
java.lang.AssertionError: 
Expected :Album{id=169, title='NEW TITLE', artistId=167, releaseDate=2000-07-06, labelId=167, listPrice=15.68}
Actual   :Album{id=169, title='NEW TITLE', artistId=167, releaseDate=2000-07-07, labelId=167, listPrice=15.68}
```

In this case, you will need to change `UTC` in the `spring.datasource.url` field to a more specific time zone setting based on your location, such as: `serverTimezone=US/Central`.  For example:

```
spring.datasource.url: jdbc:mysql://localhost:3306/record_collection?useSSL=false&serverTimezone=US/Central&createDatabaseIfNotExist=true&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true
```

Note that you will need to update the `application.properties` file accordingly in the `resources` directory in both the project's `main` and `test` directory structures.


---

© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.
