# 2.1 Activities

## We Do: Hello, Spring Boot

**Solved Folder:** [01-we-hello-spring-boot](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ENVmTXeZQS64Z3rsk55aYpPDBTRoXR3O/view?usp=sharing)

The purpose of this exercise is to create a Spring Boot web application using Spring Intializr and a simple REST endpoint using Spring Boot.

Follow along with the instructor throughout the exercise.

### Explore Initializer

First, you will explore Initializr as follows:

1. Navigate to [start.spring.io](start.spring.io).

2. Look at the simple version first, and review each of the following:

   * Build tool options (Maven/Gradle)

   * Language (Java/Kotlin/Groovy)

   * Spring Boot version

   * Project metadata

   * Dependencies

   * Note: Leave the Java version at 8 and packaging as JAR.

3. Open the full version of Initializr.

### Create a Project

Now you will create the "Hello, Spring Boot" project. Do these steps in real time along with the instructor:

1. Open the Initializr and switch to the full version.

2. Change the following project metadata values:

   * Artifact: hello (This will automatically update the values for Name and Package Name.)

   * Description: Hello, Spring Boot! Project

3. Select Java Version 8.

4. Select the Spring Web starter dependency.

5. Click Generate Project.

6. Unzip the project file that is generated.

7. Open the project in IntelliJ.

8. Open the `pom.xml` file.

9. Add the following dependency in the section of the `pom.xml` file:

    ```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>junit</groupId>
        <artifactId>junit</artifactId>
        <version>4.13</version>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>  
    ```

### Explore the Project Structure

Next you will explore the project structure:

1. Expand all the folders.

2. Review the folder structure:

   * Note that this is just a regular Maven project structure.

   * `pom.xml` is just a normal POM file.

   * The `src` folder is divided into `main` and `test`:

     * `main`

       * The `java` folder contains the Java source for the project.

       * The `resources` folder contains three main things:

         * Configuration (application.properties)

         * Static files to be served up (such as CSS, JavaScript, and image files) in the `static` folder

         * Thymeleaf templates

     * The `test` folder contains the unit tests for the project.

### Run the Project

Now run the project and check that everything compiles and runs. The application won't do anything except display an error page.

1. Run the project in IntelliJ. To do this, navigate to the `HelloApplication` class in the Project pane, right-click it, and select the `Run HelloApplication.main()` option.

2. Navigate to `localhost:8080`. You should encounter a whitelabel error page.

### Examine the Application

Next, examine the application.

1. Open `HelloApplication.java`.

2. Review the following annotation:

   ```java
   @SpringBootApplication
   ```

   * This turns on autoconfiguration and component scanning for the application.

3. `SpringApplication.run` bootstraps the application.

### Implement a Simple REST Endpoint

Finally, you'll make the application do something exciting&mdash;implement a simple REST endpoint.

1. Create a new Java class called `com.example.hello.controller.HelloController`, using the following code:

   ```java
   import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;
   
   @RestController
   public class HelloController {
   
       @RequestMapping(value="/", method=RequestMethod.GET)
       String sayHello() {
           return "hello";
       }
   }
   ```

2. Discuss the annotations:

   * `@RestController` specifies (among other things) that the return values of methods annotated with `@RequestMapping` should be included in the HTTP response body.

   * `RequestMapping` specifies that the associated method gets invoked when the endpoint described in the annotation is called. In this case, this method will get called when a `GET` request is sent to localhost:8080.

3. Rebuild and rerun the application.

4. Navigate to `localhost:8080`.

5. This time, the word "Hello" should print to the page!

## We Do: Student Service

**Solved Folder:** [02-we-student-service](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LzPZ7Ydt5BDkg0gOTwnsB_HnhHcCF4l3/view?usp=sharing)

In this exercise, you will learn how to create a simple REST web service from scratch using Spring Initializr and the routing and response annotations presented in the previous class materials. This example shows how to map path variables to method parameters. You will step through creating the Student Service with Spring Initializr and implementing the REST controller and service endpoint.

Follow along with the instructor throughout the exercise.

### Start the Project

Follow along with the instructor as you perform the following steps:

1. Open the browser and navigate to start.spring.io.

2. Create a new project with the following settings (anything not specified in the following should be left at default value):

    * Project Metadata&mdash;Group: `com.example`

    * Project Metadata&mdash;Artifact: `studentservice`

    * Dependencies: Spring Web

3. Choose Java Version 8.

4. Click Generate Project.

5. Have everyone unzip the project and open it in IntelliJ.

6. Open the `pom.xml` file.

7. Add the following dependency in the section of the `pom.xml` file:

    ```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>junit</groupId>
        <artifactId>junit</artifactId>
        <version>4.13</version>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency>   
    ```

### Create a New Class

1. Create a new class called `com.studentservice.models.Student`.

2. Display your `Student` class, and implement the following:

    ```java
    public class Student {
      private String name; 
    
      public Student(String name){
        this.setName(name);
      }
      
      public void setName(String name) {
        this.name = name;
      }
      
      public String getName(){
        return this.name; 
      }
    }
    ```

### Add Annotations

1. Have everyone create a new class called `com.studentservice.controller.StudentServiceController`.

2. Display your `StudentServiceController`, and implement the following:

    ```java
    package com.studentservice.controller;

    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMapping;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RequestMethod;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.RestController;
    import com.studentservice.models.Student;
    import java.util.List;
    import java.util.ArrayList;

    @RestController
    public class StudentServiceController {

        // This data would come from your db in real life.
        private static List<Student> studentList = new ArrayList<>(Arrays.asList(
                new Student("Sam"),
                new Student("Lisa"),
                new Student("Ming"),
                new Student("Lynda")
        ));

        @RequestMapping(value = "/students", method = RequestMethod.GET)
        public List<Student> getStudents() {
            return studentList;
        }
        
        @RequestMapping(value = "/students/{index}", method = RequestMethod.GET)
        public Student getStudentByIndex(@PathVariable int index) {
            return studentList.get(index);
        }
    }
    ```

### Compile and Run

Compile and run your service. Visit the endpoint with both a browser and Postman.

### Student Code Exercise

Using the code you just created as your starter code, modify the second route to get students by name rather than by index.

## We Do: Echo Service API: Autogenerate API Documentation

**Starter Folder** [03-we-echo-service-api](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ZCkxc9B5FM6-1tVh1Y9-Lbn0fU5wSHiZ/view?usp=sharing)

The purpose of this We Do is to teach you how to utilize the springdoc-openapi-ui dependency to automatically generate API documentation and an API testing user interface.

You will use the Echo service in the starter code folder for this We Do. You will learn how to build this service a bit later so don't examine the code&mdash;you're just interested in documenting an existing API right now.

### Instructions

Open the `pom.xml` file. Note the springdoc-openapi-ui dependency:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springdoc</groupId>
    <artifactId>springdoc-openapi-ui</artifactId>
    <version>1.5.1</version>
</dependency>
```

Note the following:

* We mark this as a configuration class with a `@Configuration` annotation.

* Springfox uses the `Docket` class to hold configuration information.

* We specify our base package so that we include only our `RestController` endpoints in the API output.

### Autogenerate API Documentation

1. Build the EchoService project and start it.

2. Capture the autogenerated API documentation:

   1. Visit [http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs](http://localhost:8080/v3/api-docs).

   2. The JSON-formatted documentation of your API should be returned and visible in your browser.

3. Next, open [Swagger Editor]( https://editor.swagger.io/).

4. Clear the contents from the editor pane by selecting File > Clear Editor.

5. Copy the JSON-formatted documentation from your browser into the editor pane of the Swagger Editor.

6. It is likely you will be asked if you want to convert the JSON to YAML. Click Yes to convert to YAML.

7. After the JSON-to-YAML conversion in Swagger Editor, if all was successful the editor pane should resemble the following code:

```
openapi: 3.0.1
info:
  title: OpenAPI definition
  version: v0
servers:
  - url: http://localhost:8080
    description: Generated server url
paths:
  /echo/{input}:
    get:
      tags:
        - echo-service-controller
      operationId: echo
      parameters:
        - name: input
          in: path
          required: true
          schema:
            type: string
      responses:
        '200':
          description: OK
          content:
            '*/*':
              schema:
                type: string
components: {}
```

> **Note:** The OpenAPI 3.0 API document is on the left pane, and endpoints that are available to be called are on the right (UI) pane.
>
> You will not be able to reach your local API directly from that UI pane because of cross-origin constraints. Instead, see how to utilize the OpenApi UI to run a test against your local API provided later.
>
> In addition to autogeneration, the API document can be created manually in Swagger Editor. This would allow for the creation of the API document before the API has been created. However, as developers, the expectation would be that requirements for the API to be built will be provided in the form of Jira stories. Most software development departments would also prefer that developers use their time coding the API and then autogenerating the necessary API document after the API has been built.

## We Do: Using Postman

**Starter Folder:** [04-we-using-postman](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FX6CM4wgWXSwBCCDrEsfVMqJo_XqYF33/view?usp=sharing)

In this exercise, you will practice using Postman by making requests to the dating-app REST API included in the starter folder.

### Instructions

Practice using Postman by making requests to a test REST API included in the repository as `dating-app`.

1. Review the `dating-app` project:

    * Don't get bogged down in the specifics of what is going on code-wise. This project will serve as a reference as you learn more about building REST APIs, but for now, you're just using it for testing purposes.

    * Point out that we have the basic RESTful routes to manipulate information about users.

    * Work through the `POST`, `GET`, `PUT`, and `DELETE` endpoints for users using the tools on that webpage.

2. Access the `dating-app` API using Postman:

   1. Start the `dating-app` application.

   2. Open Postman.

   3. Select the HTTP method&mdash;use `GET`.

   4. Put the following URL in `http://localhost:8080/users`.

       * Also type the same URL in the address bar of your browser to show learners that these requests can be made from the browser.

3. Do a `POST` (including filling in the request body):

    1. Create a new request.

    2. Select `POST`.

    3. Enter `http://localhost:8080/users` in the Request URL entry box.

    4. Select the Body tab under the URL.

    5. Select the raw radio button (this will display a place to type in data for the request body).

    6. Select JSON (application/json) from the dropdown menu beside the last radio button (this lets the server know we're sending JSON data).

    7. Enter the following for the request body:

          ```
          {
            "name": "Morpheus",
            "age": 42,
            "bio": "I took the red pill and found out how deep the rabbit hole went."
          }
          ```

    8. Press Send.

4. Spend 10 minutes or so exploring the `dating-app` API with Postman.

## MyRecordStore API Design

**Solved Folder:** [05-stu-design-rest-api](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kteW_8Tn4m85wK29d-Kuk2vqi6OsNW47/view?usp=sharing)

In this activity, you will design (but not build) a REST API that will enable management of a record store's inventory.

### Instructions

You will generate only a simple specification.

The API must enable the following functionality:

* Create a record

* Retrieve a single record by id

* Update a record

* Delete a record

* Retrieve all of the records

Each endpoint must include the following information:

* URI with path variables

* HTTP method

* HTTP response status (in case of success)

* Request body (if required; otherwise "none")

* Response body (or "none")

---

© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.
