# 2.3 Activities

## We Do: Echo Range Service

**Solved Folder:** [01-we-echo-range-service](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Y5SoeZISs5M5493Qc6XbMvHYChqT9w5U/view?usp=sharing)

The purpose of this code-along is to learn how you can use application code and exceptions to ensure that incoming values conform to the business rules of your application.

Follow along with the instructor throughout the exercise.

### Create the Project

1. Open the browser and navigate to start.spring.io.

2. Create a new project with the following settings (anything not specified in the following should be left at the default value):

   - Project Metadata&mdash;Artifact: echo-range-service

   - Dependencies: Web, Validation

3. Select Java 8.

4. Click Generate Project.

5. Unzip the project and open it in IntelliJ.

6. Open the `pom.xml` file.

7. Add the following dependency in the section of the `pom.xml` file:

    ```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>junit</groupId>
        <artifactId>junit</artifactId>
        <version>4.13</version>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency> 
    ```

### Create a Custom Error Response Class

1. Create the `CustomErrorResponse` class:

   - Create a new class called `com.example.echorangeservice.model.CustomErrorResponse`.

   - Implement the following:

        ```java
        package com.example.echorangeservice.model;

            import com.fasterxml.jackson.annotation.JsonFormat;
            import java.time.LocalDateTime;
            
            public class CustomErrorResponse {
            
                String errorMsg;
                int status;
                String errorCode;
                @JsonFormat(shape = JsonFormat.Shape.STRING, pattern = "yyyy-MM-dd hh:mm:ss")
                LocalDateTime timestamp;
            
                // Two-argument constructor
                public CustomErrorResponse(String errorCode, String errorMsg) {
                    this.errorCode = errorCode;
                    this.errorMsg = errorMsg;
                }
            
                ...Add getters/setters for all instance variables.
            }
        ```

2. Note the following:

    - This `CustomErrorResponse` class will serve as a formatted error-response object to provide a consistent way of relaying error-response notifications to the caller.

    - This class is a simple Java POJO created to control the look and feel of error communications sent back to the caller.

### Create the Controller

1. Create the `EchoRangeServiceController`:
   - Create a new class called `com.example.echorangeservice.controller.EchoRangeServiceController`.

2. Implement the following:

    ```java
    package com.example.echorangeservice.controller;

    import org.springframework.http.HttpStatus;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;


    @RestController
    public class EchoRangeServiceController {

        @RequestMapping(value = "/echo/{input}", method = RequestMethod.GET)
        @ResponseStatus(value = HttpStatus.OK)
        public int echo(@PathVariable int input) {
            if (input < 1 || input > 10) {
                throw new IllegalArgumentException("Input must be between 1 and 10.");
            }

            return input;
        }
    }
    ```

3. Note the following:

    - Compare and contrast this code to that of the Echo service you did previously:

    - `@RequestMapping` is the same.

    - You have added a `@ResponseStatus`.

    - `@PathVariable` is the same, except you are asking the framework to convert input to an int instead of a string.

    - Review the method implementation:

    - You manually check to make sure the input is in the required range.

    - If it isn't, you throw an `IllegalArgumentException`.

    - As you'll see, the Spring framework does a good job communicating in the server log that an `IllegalArgumentException` was thrown and the text you specified is shown. However, the response to the client is a vague 500 Internal Server Error.

### Compile, Run, and Test

- Compile and run the service. Hit the endpoint with both a browser and with Postman. Try it with both in-range and out-of-range values.

### Create an Error Handler

The purpose of this section is to show how to handle `IllegalArgumentException` occurrences within a `@RestControllerAdvice` component.

1. You're going to implement an error handler for the controller. Have everyone create a new class called `com.example.echorangeserve.controller.ControllerExceptionHandler`.

2. Implement the shell of the class first:

   - Add the `@RestControllerAdvice` annotation. This makes the Spring Framework aware that this is an error handler for the controllers of this application.

   - Add the `@RequestMapping` annotation.

3. Next, include method-level annotations:

   - `@ExceptionHandler`: This method will handle `IllegalArgumentExceptions`.

   - `@ResponseStatus`: This method will return a `422 Unprocessable Entity` status. This means that the request was syntactically correct (i.e., it is well-formed HTTP) but that the service can't process it because it doesn't meet some business rule.

4. Now create the shell of the method:

   - You will return `ResponseEntity<CustomErrorResponse>` from this method. This object will get converted to JSON by the Jackson Mapper, just like the return types of the methods in the controller.

   - The name of the method is arbitrary. Use a meaningful name.

   - The single input parameter is the exception you want this method to handle. The Spring Framework will automatically hand that to the method.

5. Finally, implement the body of the method:

   - First create a `CustomErrorResponse` object. The constructor takes two parameters:

     - The first parameter is the String definition of the HTTP status (in this example, `HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY.toString()`).

     - The second parameter is the message for the error. You use the message from the thrown exception.

   - Next, use the object setter to set the value for status.

   - Complete the `CustomErrorResponse` object creation by setting the timestamp.

   - Next, create a new `ResponseEntity<CustomErrorResponse>` object. The constructor has two parameters:

     - The `CustomErrorResponse` object.

     - The `HttpStatus` you want to associate with the response.

    ```java
    package com.example.echorangeservice.controller;

    import com.example.echorangeservice.model.CustomErrorResponse;
    import org.springframework.http.HttpStatus;
    import org.springframework.http.ResponseEntity;
    import org.springframework.web.bind.annotation.*;

    @RestControllerAdvice
    public class ControllerExceptionHandler {

        @ExceptionHandler(value = {IllegalArgumentException.class})
        @ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY)
        public ResponseEntity<CustomErrorResponse> outOfRangeException(IllegalArgumentException e) {
            CustomErrorResponse error = new CustomErrorResponse(HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY.toString(), e.getMessage());
            error.setTimestamp(LocalDateTime.now());
            error.setStatus(HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY.value());
            ResponseEntity<CustomErrorResponse> responseEntity = new ResponseEntity<>(error, HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY);
            return responseEntity;
        }
    }
    ```

## We Do: Record Service Validation and Error Handling

- **Starter & Solved Folders:** [02-we-record-store](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1KEIN_QOCTukEBNqgxM7HI2dZe_U_w0_Z/view?usp=sharing)

The purpose of this part of the code-along is to show how to use JSR 303 and the `@Valid` annotations to ensure that incoming JSON objects conform to the business rules of your application.

Follow along with the instructor throughout the exercise.

### DTO Validation

1. Go to the Record Store project in the starter code and open the `Record` class.

2. Add the following annotation to the `artist` property at the top of the class:

    ```java
    public class Record {

        @NotEmpty(message = "You must supply a value for artist.")
        private String artist;
        private String album;
        private int id;

        // constructors, getters, setters, etc. omitted for brevity
    }
    ```

Now you will add the `@Valid` annotation to the controller:

1. Open the `RecordStoreController` class.

2. Add the `@Valid` to the `createRecord` method annotation as in the following code:

    ```java
    @RequestMapping(value = "/records", method = RequestMethod.POST)
    @ResponseStatus(value = HttpStatus.CREATED)
    public Record createRecord(@RequestBody @Valid Record record) {

        record.setId(idCounter++); 
        recordList.add(record);

        return record;
    }
    ```

Note the following:

- You are adding only the `@Valid` annotation to the `Record parameter` to this method.

- You can stack annotations on parameters. You are applying both the `@RequestBody` and `@Valid` annotations to this parameter.

Use Postman to test the `POST` route again, and see how an error is returned if you do not include the `artist` property in your request body.

### Student Do: Validation

1. Add annotations to the `Record` DTO to ensure that none of the properties, other than `id`, are empty. Again, **do not apply the annotation to the `id` property.**

2. Once you've added the annotations to ensure the properties are not empty, open the validation documentation located at: [https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/validation/constraints/package-summary.html (Links to an external site.)](https://docs.oracle.com/javaee/7/api/javax/validation/constraints/package-summary.html).

3. **Challenge:** Add a new property to the DTO called `year`. Try to add an additional constraint that ensures the `year` is exactly four digits.

### Record Service Error Handling

The purpose of this part of the code-along is to learn how to handle JSR 303 validation errors within a `@RestControllerAdvice` component.

1. Open the Record Store project.

2. You are going to implement an error handler for the JSR 303 validation errors that can be thrown from the controller.

3. Create a class called `controller.ControllerExceptionHandler`.

4. Implement the shell of the class first.

   - This is exactly like the shell you implemented for the Echo Range service.

5. Next, include the method-level annotations:

   - `@ExceptionHandler`: This method will handle `MethodArgumentNotValidExceptions`. This is the exception thrown when JSR 303 validation fails.

   - `@ResponseStatus`: This method will return a 422 Unprocessable Entity status. This means that the request was syntactically correct (i.e., it is well-formed HTTP) but that the service can't process it because it doesn't meet some business rule.

6. Now create the shell of the method:

   - You will return `ResponseEntity<List<CustomErrorResponse>>` from this method. This object will get converted to JSON by the Jackson Mapper just like the return types of the methods in the controller.

   - The name of the method is arbitrary. Use a meaningful name.

   - The one input parameter is the exception that you want this method to handle. The Spring Framework will automatically hand that to the method.

7. Finally, implement the body of the method:

   - The `MethodArgumentNotValidException` holds the specific validation errors in a `BindingResult` object.

   - Each of the errors is held in a `FieldError` object. Here you get the `List` of `FieldError` objects.

   - Next, create an empty `ArrayList` of `CustomErrorResponse` objects that will be populated with the list of JSR 303 errors returned to the caller.

   - Next, translate the `FieldError` objects into `CustomErrorResponse` objects, and add each object to the `errorResponseList` that will be returned to the caller.

   - Finally, create a `ResponseEntity<List<CustomErrorResponse>>` object that will include the `errorResponseList` and the `HttpStatus` code to be returned. This process is identical to the previous example.

        ```java
        @RestControllerAdvice
        public class ControllerExceptionHandler {

            @ExceptionHandler(value = {MethodArgumentNotValidException.class})
            @ResponseStatus(HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY)
            public ResponseEntity<List<CustomErrorResponse>> newResponseErrors(MethodArgumentNotValidException e) {

                // BindingResult holds the validation errors
                BindingResult result = e.getBindingResult();
                // Validation errors are stored in FieldError objects
                List<FieldError> fieldErrors = result.getFieldErrors();

                // Translate the FieldErrors to CustomErrorResponse
                List<CustomErrorResponse> errorResponseList = new ArrayList<>();

                for (FieldError fieldError : fieldErrors) {
                    CustomErrorResponse errorResponse = new CustomErrorResponse(HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY.toString(), fieldError.getDefaultMessage());
                    errorResponse.setTimestamp(LocalDateTime.now());
                    errorResponse.setStatus(HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY.value());
                    errorResponseList.add(errorResponse);
                }

                // Create and return the ResponseEntity
                ResponseEntity<List<CustomErrorResponse>> responseEntity = new ResponseEntity<>(errorResponseList, HttpStatus.UNPROCESSABLE_ENTITY);
                return responseEntity;

            }
        }
        ```

### Student Do: Complete Record Store Service

The purpose of this activity is to practice with the concepts presented in this lesson to make sure you are ready for the assignments.

Complete the Record Store service as specified in the following.

#### Introduction

In this activity, you will practice your new knowledge of error handling. You will use the code from the Record Store API project in Lessons 1.4.5 and 1.4.6 (see starter code which follows).

#### Instructions

1. Start by refactoring your tests and code to adjust for the new "year" property added to the Record DTO.

2. Add tests to check for the following expected failures:

   - An invalid Request Body should return a 422 Unprocessable Entity status code.

   - In the `/records/{id} PUT` request, if the id in the parameter does not match the id in the request body, the request should return a 422 Unprocessable Entity status code.

   - **Note:** You can check for expected failures in the same way as testing void methods&mdash;by just asserting an expected status code.

3. Add an error handler class with methods to handle the following exceptions:

   - `MethodArgumentNotValidException`, which returns 422 Unprocessable Entity status code.

   - `IllegalArgumentsException`, which returns 422 Unprocessable Entity status code.

4. Implement the necessary changes to your Record Store `Controller` class to pass the tests you've just written.

#### Challenge

1. Add tests to check for a 404 Not Found status code when a `GET` request made to `/records/{id}` does not find a matching Record.

2. Add an additional exception handler method to return a 404 Not Found error.

3. Implement the code to pass the new test.

**Hint:** You might find it easiest to complete the challenge by creating a new exception that extends `RuntimeException`.

## We Do: Query Parameters

* **Starter & Solved Folders:** [03-we-record-store](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VqgMn5ASkBlyndlUQo_s9XsfmgZXcMOr/view?usp=sharing)

So far, your APIs have performed only simple CRUD operations, with the only URI parameters sent to the API being path variables via the `@PathVariable` annotation. In this exercise, you will add additional parameters in the form of query parameters.

### Instructions

1. Open the Record Store API project in IntelliJ.

   - The Record Store API is found in the starter code.

2. Open the `Controller` class.

3. You can add query parameters to an endpoint. This is a lot like doing path variables&mdash;with an annotation.

4. Add the `@RequestParam` annotation and define a method parameter for `artist` in the `getAllRecords` method. Note that you do not have to modify your path:

   ```java
   @RequestMapping(value = "/records", method = RequestMethod.GET)
   @ResponseStatus(value = HttpStatus.OK)
   public List<Record> getAllRecords(@RequestParam String artist) {
   
       return recordList;
   }
   ```

5. Before implementing the method, using Postman or a browser, hit the `/records` endpoint.

   - You will get an error stating the "Required String parameter 'artist' is not present."

   - You can signify that a request parameter is optional by adding a value for `required` in your annotation:

        ```java
        @RequestMapping(value = "/records", method = RequestMethod.GET)
        @ResponseStatus(value = HttpStatus.OK)
        public List<Record> getAllRecords(@RequestParam(required = false) String artist) {

            return recordList;
        }
        ```

6. Quickly implement the code necessary to make your `getAllRecords` method function:

    ```java
    @RequestMapping(value = "/records", method = RequestMethod.GET)
    @ResponseStatus(value = HttpStatus.OK)
    public List<Record> getAllRecords(@RequestParam(required = false) String artist) {
        List<Record> returnList = recordList;

        if (artist != null) {
            returnList = recordList.stream()
                            .filter(r -> r.getArtist().contains(artist))
                            .collect(Collectors.toList());
        }

        return returnList;
    }
    ```

7. Using Postman or your browser, hit the `/records` endpoint, both without any parameters and with `?artist=Joel` appended, to show how it changes the response.

8. You can also include multiple parameters if desired:

    ```java
    @RequestMapping(value = "/records", method = RequestMethod.GET)
    @ResponseStatus(value = HttpStatus.OK)
    public List<Record> getAllRecords(@RequestParam(required = false) String artist, @RequestParam(required = false) String year) {
        List<Record> returnList = recordList;

        if (artist != null) {
            returnList = recordList.stream()
                            .filter(r -> r.getArtist().contains(artist))
                            .collect(Collectors.toList());
        }

        // Filtering by year left as an exercise for the learner.

        return returnList;
    }
    ```

## Student Do: Filter by Year Code

- Using the code from the previous We Do, pair up and complete the filter by year code.

## We Do: City Web Service

* **Solved Folder:** [04-we-city-web-service](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1TDqVKp0w6uFJQ1e__h3y0rTOAcJsTt1y/view?usp=sharing))

In this exercise, you will create a REST API representing city data.

Follow along with the instructor throughout the exercise.

### Create the Project

Display your screen as you do the following:

1. Open your browser and navigate to start.spring.io.

2. Create a new project with the following settings (anything not specified in the following should be left at the default value):

   - Project Metadata&mdash;Artifact: city-web-service

   - Dependencies: Web, Validation

3. Select Java 8.

4. Click Generate Project.

5. Unzip the project and open it in IntelliJ.

6. Open the `pom.xml` file.

7. Add the following dependency in the section of the `pom.xml` file:

    ```xml
    <dependency>
        <groupId>junit</groupId>
        <artifactId>junit</artifactId>
        <version>4.13</version>
        <scope>test</scope>
    </dependency> 
    ```

8. Select the Load Maven Changes button or press Ctrl-Shift-O to load the changes into the project.

### Create the City Model

1. Add the class "model.City" to the project.  This class will represent the data for each city in your application.

2. Add to the class a getter and setter method for each of the following:

    - Name

    - State

    - Population

    - Whether or not the city is a state capital

3. Add the following validation to the class:

    - The `Name` field cannot be null or empty.

    - The `State` field cannot be null or empty.

    - The `Population` field must be have a positive value.

### Create the City Controller

1. Add the class "controller.CityController" to the project.  This class will serve as the basis for your City API.

2. The application must store all data in memory.  With this in mind, add to your class a list containing several `City` objects, which the application can use for its initial data.

3. Add the following capabilities to your API:

    - Add a city

        - URI: `/city`

        - Method: `POST`

        - Request Body: City

        - Response Body: City

    - Delete a city by name

        - URI: `/city/{name}`

        - Method: `DELETE`

        - Request Body: None

        - Response Body: None

    - Retrieve all the cities

        - URI: `/city`

        - Method: `GET`

        - Request Body: None

        - Response Body: City List

    - Retrieve one city by name

        - URI: `/city/{name}`

        - Method: `GET`

        - Request Body: None

        - Response Body: City

### Implement Test Cases

1. With TDD in mind, use "mockMvc" to implement a number of test cases to verify your API functionality.

2. Make sure to include test cases to verify that error conditions, such as attempting to retrieve a city that does not exist, are gracefully handled.

## Student Do: Month Converter

- **Solved Folder:** [05-stu-month-converter](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1PSC4iiFGjfjqLEAL8Xd1r5Ev7yzufRS3/view?usp=sharing)

In this exercise, you will create a simple API that converts a month number to the name of the month.

### Overview

The API has the following endpoints that must be implemented:

- URL: `/month/{monthNumber}`

- HTTP Method: `GET`

- RequestBody: None

- Response: JSON object

  - String name of month, for example, "January" for a `monthNumber` of "1"

- Error: 422, if the `monthNumber` is not between 1 and 12

### Requirements

- The API must have tests using MockMvc.

- The API must be implemented to the aforementioned specifications.

---

© 2022 Trilogy Education Services, a 2U, Inc. brand. All Rights Reserved.
